Now, let's make a, kind of a bigger test.
So, this is kind of a trivial test,
let's see if we can make
something more interesting.
So let's test if it prints
Current parameters.
So, again, we're gonna navigate,
but when you navigate a page,
you can specify additional
parameters in here.
For example, I can say size equals 1,000.
Number of clusters equals 5.
Let's see.
Is that the correct parameter?
Size, distance, mincluster.
So, size is that, and
I can say distance is 450.
So let's say we wanted to navigate
with this particular URL,
just to kind of prove a point.
I can go here.
And, where is our Chicago?
We can navigate and
now you can see that the default size and
distance has been updated, right?
Let's say we wanted to assert
this particular thing.
So the most obvious way to
do that is you navigate and
then you start selecting things like, for
example, you say a wait,
expect page.locator.
And I think I have a size.
Locator is the way you
find things on a page.
And I've already gave size a class,
so that I can easily find it, and
then I can assert that size
two have text thousand, right?
Why is this?
So, if you look at this.
Thousand right here, You'll see that
it's a span and it already has a class.
So I've already given it a class so
that it's easy for
me to go and select it on the page.
Otherwise, you would have a really hard
time finding things on a page, right?
So typically, you kind of, again,
this is another example of where
you design the application
with testability in mind.
You put extra stuff in there so
that later on it makes it easier for
you to locate and find them and
assert different things around it.
And we can assert other thing.
First of all, let's see if it runs.
So, let's see if our test is passing.
And it looks like it's timing out.
No, it's passed.
So, it did pass.
And you can see that it actually
highlighted the selector on a page.
If you click on this thing,
you can see it highlighting that this
is the part that it's asserting.
Now, the thing I wanna show you is that,
you will, let's make more assertions here.
So, we have size, we have distance,
that should be 450.
And we have min-cluster size And
let's say that's, I think that's 10,
what is the default?
Not this 5, sorry, this is 5 here, and so
now, I should be able to rerun this test
and I should have more assertions and
they all should pass, right?
So they're still passing.
The thing wanna show you is,
you're gonna get bored after
a while writing these tests.
And especially not only are you gonna get
bored, it's gonna get annoying because all
these selectors will make it difficult for
you to reason about the application.
So what you want to do is you want
to put a level of indirection.
Between your unit tests or
rather your end-to-end tests, and
the actual application.
And so, in the world of e2e,
these are called page objects.
And a page object is the logical
representation of what the page does.
So let's build one.
So, what you want is you
create a cluster page,
And the constructor of
the cluster page will take page,
And let's say we want to get the title.
So we can create a title on it,
and the title really is, oops,
return this page locator h1,
no, this page, page.title.
And we also wanna be able to get size.
Wow, Autopilot is amazing.
Okay, get distance, yep, wow.
Get min-cluster size, yes.
You're reading my mind.
It's just amazing when AI works, right?
So, now you have these things, and
you probably also want to
be able to do navigation.
So you wanna create a, sorry,
a saying go to and you wanna navigate and
you probably instead of
creating this URLs this way,
you probably want to
create them as parameters.
You wanna basically say something like,
I wanna have a size, which is a number.
And I wanna have a distance and
min-cluster as well, AI,
you are really rocking it.
Create this.
And, sorry, why is it not?
Right, because it is right, we do
Okay, so you're saying, look, when you do
go to, you can give me these defaults and
I'm gonna build up the URL for you, right?
So you will start with something like,
const url = equals new URL.
And then you can say,
if you have size, then set the size,
if you have distance, set the distance,
if you have min-cluster size,
set them in cluster size and
then you do URL to string.
So now we can go back Into our original
code and we can do some re-factorings.
What we do, we say const cluster
page equals new, oops.
And now that we have a cluster page,
we can rewrite it in a more natural way.
You can say await cluster page go-to,
we don't have to specify anything there.
And then we can write it in this
particular format, which is kind of nicer.
Similarly, in this case,
instead of writing,
I'm gonna actually just comment
this out so it's easier to compare.
Instead of writing this, we can write,
go to, and now we have type safety,
and we can specify that we want
a distance of 450, size of 1000,
minClusterSize of 5, and
then we can Write assertions.
And again, assertions we don't
have to worry about the selectors,
we can just say, hey, on this page,
to have this value, this value and
that value so let's see if we
have still have a working test.
That test works, and
that test works as well.
So the idea behind, let me delete this.
Well, let me just keep it here.
The idea behind a page object is that
it provides a level of indirection
between you and just the DOM.
Cuz the DOM is difficult to work with.
Selectors are difficult to understand,
right?
But what it allows you to do is, let's
say in the future you decide to refactor
the way you display stuff on it for
the user.
You can do that.
You then have to go and
update the cluster page object, but
you don't have to update hundreds
of different tests to match this.
Because the test speak a language
that is strongly typed, right?
The TypeScript is strongly typed.
So here, instead of saying,
give me a locator that has span distance,
which you might forget, or
somebody might refactor or change, etc,
you can just say, give me the distance.
And you can work with
that particular thing.
Does that make sense?
Yes.
>> What do you think about, I've used
the testing library frameworks before and
they prioritize accessibility attributes,
what do you think about
using stuff like that?.
>> Well, in general,
you want to set up your page so
that it's easier to test, right?
And you want to add extra attributes.
Whether those attributes come
in the form of classes or
accessibility attributes or some other
format, it doesn't really matter.
What matters is that you
create your up page, right,
in whatever framework you're using.
You create this page object,
which abstracts away the selectors, right?
It hides the selectors from you, and
does not just hiding of the selectors,
it also hides how to do URL encoding,
right?
And then you just have the test.
And so the test,
instead of going to individual selectors,
which are hard to read and understand and
see why, it becomes easier to read.
And also, this now provides a place where
you can leave documentation, right?
You can say like represents
the current size of the dataset.
Or something like that, right?
So it's a way of providing
all this useful information.
So the page object basically
gives you a programmatic view
to all the knobs and
values that the user might be able to do.
So if you had a button over there,
then that button would be
exposed in your page object.